#########################
# Aarav(cli, csr, cssbot) and other automation for TSE's

  ## Introduction

This might be nothing new for many of you who already have similar procedures/
tools, and you might find similiar things in support-tools. But this doesn't
stop me from trying to create my own "GSS Console".

You are probably a Star Trek fan, and you probably agree they had these nice
looking consoles to control the Enterprise. This is the way I do tickets in
GSS.

  ## tmux panes and history

Besides a browser with some tabs and an irc client, I use tmux as my terminal
multiplexer. My main view is composed of 11 terminals which I use in the
following manner:

  +-----+-------+-----+
  |  6  |       |  4  |   1 - case description  (description panel)
  +-----+   1   +-----+   2 - writing updates   (analysis panel)
  |     +-------+  5  |   3 - working case file (investigation panel)
  +-----+   2   +-----+   4 - irc filtered log
  |     +-------+     |   5 - logging from the aarav-cli
  +-----+       +-----+   6 - git
  |     |   3   |     |   
  +-----+-------+-----+

The remaining 5 I use for multiple purposes, writing articles (like this
one) and todo lists, using kb to view solution content or using bc. I live in
the terminal, and apparently in vi according to my history:

  [redhat]$ history | awk '{print $2}' | sort | uniq -c | sort -nr | head -30 | nl
       1     3227 vi
       2     2288 cd
       3     1991 ll
       4     1669 cat
       5     1627 grep
       6     1562 git
       7     1452 sudo
       8     1038 xsos
       9      889 ls
      10      820 awk
      11      734 tar
      12      691 new
      13      643 ~/scripts/myscripts/csr
      14      605 find
      15      478 cdc
      16      360 man
      17      340 ssh
      18      263 clear
      19      241 glo (git log --oneline)
      20      225 shotwell
      21      197 rm
      22      184 egrep
      23      174 asap-graph
      24      121 ca
      25      118 ~/scripts/myscripts/csr2/csr2
      26      116 ps
      27      114 mv
      28      110 bc
      29      103 scp
      30      102 pwd

  ## tmux Navigation

  ctrl+b+z  - zoom in/out a single panel
  ctrl+b+right_arrow - move to panel in the right
  ctrl+b+left_arrow - move to panel in the left
  ctrl+b+up_arrow - move to panel up
  ctrl+b+down_arrow - move to panel down

  ## Inside the directory structure 

Issuing nco, creates a file <case_number_date.txt> inside ~/redhat/comments/
and immediatelly edits it with vi. After you save and quit you can go back to
previous comment using eco:

  $ nco  # creates a comment file for your case
  file ~/redhat/comments/casenumer_date.txt created
  $ eco  # edits last comment
  $ pco  # prepare last comment - aspell and copy to clipboard

In the end the file name is shown so you can use it to cat something to:

  [01545256]$ nco
  /home/gfigueir/redhat/comments/01545256_201702102251.txt

I organize my data flow in the following way:

  ~/redhat/cases    - attachments
  ~/redhat/comments - self explanatory
  ~/redhat/scripts  - *.sh: 204 lines of bash scripts
  ~/redhat/docs     - my "knowledge base": 3386 lines

Inside ~/redhat/cases I have folders for each case:

  01752455  01764001  01768974  01777490  01787380
  01752848  01764004  01768978  01777550  01787453
  01753606  01764140  01770702  01777776  01787905
  01755702  01764263  01770985  01777873  01788097
  01756431  01764466  01771000  01778069  01788279

  ## Aarav cli

Each "Aarav cli" script uses $PWD to figure out which case context it is
working on:

  $ ada plotted_sar.png
  file plotted_sar.png added to 01756289
  $

I can download attachments in the right folder and end up inside the dir or
enter the case_dir:

  $ new 01786880 # download attachments with redhat-support-tool
  Downloading files ...
  File listing
  [01786880]$ 

  [~]$ cdc 01786880 # enter the case dir; creates dir if folder doesn't exist
  total 0
  [01786880]$ 

Each small script is logging to a history file, which I have a live feed on
terminal #5

  201702071457: 01787453 - attachments downloaded
  201702080833: 01788097 - attachments downloaded
  201702080940: 01787334 - attachments downloaded
  201702081135: 01788279 - attachments downloaded
  201702081213: 01788279 - new attachment added
  201702090834: 01776770 - attachments downloaded
  201702091200: 01787334 - new comment created
  201702091215: 01787334 - new comment published
  201702091216: 01787334 - new comment published
  201702101216: 01789882 - attachments downloaded

  ## ~/.bashrc:

There are some hooks in my .bashrc:

  ca() { redhat-support-tool getcase $1 | less ; }
  kb() { redhat-support-tool kb $1 | less ; }
  new() { ~/redhat/scripts/new.sh $1 ; cd ~/redhat/cases/$1 ; }

  ## csr and cssbot

Besides greping for some know issues (30+ kbs) in the logs and printing the
related kcs, csr acts like an extension for xsos, and is able to show me:

  * uptime, last reboots, user initiated reboots, cluster fences, mces, other
    reboots
  * hung task watchdog messages, soflockup watchdog messages, oom-killer
    messages, and RIP|BUG|WARNING messages (with snippets of call traces)
  * non zeroed counters from netstat -s and ethtool, network send and receive
    queue totals
  * 3rd party modules and kernel taint status, cmdline and kdump configs

cssbot is an attempt to provide cutomers with a reasonable amount of knwoldege
base documents when they are clueless about how to interact with us. So it
gives you the ability to choose categories (there is a ncurses menu for that),
and according to the categories selected it will print you the most relevant
kcs so you can paste it to your comment and get some knowledge to your
customer.

  ## asap-graph

Thanks to mreznik++ I'm oftenly plotting sar graphs and uploading to customers
to show them how their system's are behaving as not all customers provide
such graphs. 

  ## irc

I use dbus to change status in irc so I don't need to switch to the xchat
window.

  ## What's next?

I was toying with the idea of a central prompt, which I can switch to case
context on panes 1, 2 and 3.

Unfortunatelly redhat-support-tool cannot list my cases, because it was meant
to be used by our costumers. I miss having a separate pane for my WoOwner
cases. 
